(BELL TOLLING DISTANTLY)
(FUNERAL MARCH PLAYING)
(GUN FIRING)
(GIRL SCREAMING)
(GUNSHOTS ECHOING)
(EXCLAIMING IN ITALIAN)
(PEOPLE SHOUTING IN ITALIAN)
(WOMAN SHRIEKING)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(SOBBING)
(CICCIO LAUGHING)
(CICCIO SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(IN ITALIAN)
(SCREAMING
IN ITALIAN)
(CICCIO SHOUTING
(CHURCH BELL TOLLING)
(CICCIO SHOUTING IN ITALIAN)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(MAN SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(PEOPLE CHATTERING EXCITEDLY
IN ITALIAN)
Nurse.
(BAWLING)
Money?
(PEOPLE CHATTERING
IN VARIOUS LANGUAGES)
Interpreter!
OFFICER: Where are you from?
What is your name?
Maria.
Come on. son.
What is your name?
(SPEAKING IN ITALIAN)
MAN: Vito Andolini
from Corleone.
Corleone. Vito Corleone.
Okay. over there.
Next.
Your name?
Tell him he has smallpox.
Quarantine three months.
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
MAN: Vito Corleone!
Vito Corleone!
Here he is.
This is him.
(DOOR SLAMMING)
(GULLS CAWING)
(SINGING IN ITALIAN)
(CHURCH ORGAN PLAYING)
(PRIEST RECITING IN LATIN)
(SPEAKING LATIN)
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
MAN: Did you bring
the car keys?
WOMAN: Laurie! Laurie!
(GUESTS APPLAUDING)
(BAND RESUMES PLAYING MUSIC)
Mama!
Oh! Mama!
(SIGHS)
Look who's here.
Ah! Father Carmelo.
Connie. how are you?
This is
Father Carmelo.
I'm Merle Johnson.
Pleased to meet you.
Mama!
Here I am.
Constanzia. finalmente.
after one week?
I sent the car to the airport
last week to pick you up.
Oh.
It was chaos.
Anyway. here I am.
just one week late.
Oh!
This is for my mama!
What is this?
You remember
Merle don't you?
Hello. Mama.
Hello. How are you?
Thank you.
Where's Michael?
I've got to talk to him
and get a few things straight
and I can't wait on line.
You go see your
children first.
And then you worry
about waiting on line
to see your brother.
Like everybody else.
(CEREMONIAL MUSIC PLAYING)
CONDUCTOR ON MICROPHONE:
Ladies and gentlemen...
CICCI: Frank. wake up.
CONDUCTOR: A most
distinguished guest would
like to say a few words.
Would you please welcome
Senator Pat Geary
of the State of Nevada.
(GUESTS APPLAUDING)
And there is Mrs. Geary.
GEARY: Thank you
very much.
ladies and gentlemen.
This is a very.
very happy day
for me and. uh. my wife
Mrs. Geary.
We see Nevada
far too seldom.
But particularly today
when we can...
We can join
with old friends.
we can make new friends
and we help celebrate
a young man's
first Communion.
And also to thank
that boy's family
for a magnificent
contribution to the State.
I have here
in my hand a check
made out to
the university
and it is
a magnificent endowment
in the name of
(PEOPLE APPLAUDING)
Uh...
(MISPRONOUNCING)
Anthony Vito Corleone.
And the check is signed by
that young man's parents
whom I think
we should recognize.
Mike. Pat. uh. Kay.
stand up. please.
Let the folks see you!
Folks. I want you
to join with me
in giving a real
Nevada "Thank you"
(DRUMROLL)
to Mr. and Mrs.
Michael Corleone!
(INAUDIBLE)
We also have. as a special
added attraction.
the Sierra Boys Choir
who have chosen
a certain special song
and a special arrangement
to honor their host.
Mr. Michael Corleone.
Boys.
(PIANO MUSIC PLAYING)
(CHOIR SINGING)
PHOTOGRAPHER: The plaque.
Okay. fellows.
did you get that one?
Okay. that's good.
Now. Senator.
just you and Mrs. Corleone.
This is my lawyer Tom Hagen.
Senator Geary.
He's the one who arranged
this whole thing through
your man Turnbull.
Yes. yes.
Sit down.
Well. I was under
the impression that
you and I would talk alone.
I trust these men
with my life. Senator.
If I were to ask
them to leave.
it would be an insult.
Well. it's perfectly
all right with me
but I am a blunt man
and I intend to speak
very frankly to you.
Maybe more frankly
than anyone in my position
has ever talked to you before.
The Corleone family
has done well in Nevada.
You own. or control.
two major hotels in Vegas
and one in Reno.
The licenses were
grandfathered in.
so there was no problem
with the Gaming Commission.
Now my sources tell me
that you plan
to make a move
against the Tropigala.
They tell me
that within a week.
you're going to
move Klingman out.
That's quite an expansion.
However. it will
leave you with one little
technical problem.
(GULPS)
The license will still be
in Klingman's name.
Turnbull is
a good man.
Yeah. well. let's cut out
the bullshit.
I don't want to spend
more time here
than I have to.
You can have
the license.
The price is
250.000 dollars.
Plus a monthly payment
of five percent of the gross
of all four hotels. Mr.. uh.
(EMPHASIZES ITALIAN
PRONUNCIATION) Corleone.
Now the price
for the license
is less than
$20.000. right?
GEARY: That's right.
Now why would I ever consider
paying more than that?
Because I intend
to squeeze you.
I don't like
your kind of people.
I don't like to see you
come out to this clean
country in oily hair
dressed up in
those silk suits
and try to pass yourselves off
as decent Americans.
I'll do business with you.
but the fact is that
I despise your masquerade.
the dishonest way
you pose yourself.
Yourself and your whole
fucking family.
Senator.
we're both part of
the same hypocrisy.
But never think
it applies to my family.
(DISMISSIVELY)
All right. all right.
Some people have to
play little games.
You play yours.
So let's just say that
you'll pay me because it's
in your interest to pay me.
But I want your answer
and the money
by noon tomorrow.
And one more thing.
Don't you
contact me again. ever.
From now on
you deal with Turnbull.
Open that door. son.
Senator. you can have
my answer now if you like.
My offer is this...
Nothing.
Not even the fee
for the gaming license.
which I would appreciate if
you would put up personally.
(CHUCKLING)
Good afternoon.
gentlemen.
Ladies! I didn't know
you were out here.
Honey. we have
to go. We're 30 minutes late.
KAY: Oh. really? I'm sorry.
GEARY: Mrs. Corleone. it's
been delightful. Thank you.
KAY: Oh. no...
It was our pleasure. Thank you
so much. it was wonderful
talking with you.
(MUSIC PLAYING)
(INDISTINCT CHATTERING)
Fredo! Fredo.
you son-of-a-bitch.
you look great!
Frank Pentangeli!
I thought you was
never coming out west.
you big bum!
I've got to check
on my boys.
Hey. Fredo. what's with
the food here?
What's the matter?
A kid comes up to me
in a white jacket.
gives me a Ritz cracker
with chopped liver
and says. "canapes".
I said. "Can of peas. my ass.
That's a Ritz cracker
and chopped liver!"
(LAUGHING)
Bring out the peppers
and sardines!
Oh. seeing you
reminds me of New York.
the old days!
Hey. Fredo.
you remember. uh. Willi Cicci.
who was with old man
Clemenza in Brooklyn?
Yeah. look here...
We were all
upset about that. Frankie.
Heart attack. huh?
No. no. that was
no heart attack.
That's... That's what I'm here
to see your brother
Mike about.
But what's
with him?
What do you mean?
I mean.
what do I got to do.
do I have to get
a letter of introduction
to get a sit-down?
You...you can't get in
to see Mike?
He's got me
waiting in a lobby!
Johnny Ola.
Al Neri.
Do you know my lawyer
Tom Hagen? Johnny Ola...
Sure...
I remember Tom
from the old days.
Rocco.
What's this?
It's an orange
from Miami.
Why don't you take care
of Johnny's men?
They look like
they might be hungry.
Johnny?
Tom isn't gonna sit in
with us. Johnny.
He only handles specific areas
of the family business. Tom...
Sure. Mike.
What are you
drinking. Johnny?
Anisette.
If you need anything. Mike.
I'll be outside. all right?
MICHAEL: Just tell Rocco
we're waiting. Tom.
JOHNNY: I just left. uh.
Mr. Roth in Miami.
MICHAEL: How is his health?
JOHNNY: Ahh. it's not good.
(SIGHS)
MICHAEL: Is there anything
I can do. anything I can send?
JOHNNY: He appreciates
your concern. Michael.
and your respect.
That casino you are
interested in...
The registered owners are
Jacob Lawrence.
Allan Barclay.
Both Beverly Hills
attorneys.
The real owners are the old
Lakeville Road group
from Cleveland
and our friend
in Miami.
Meyer Klingman runs it
he owns a piece
of it too. he does all right.
But I've been
instructed to tell you
that if you move Klingman out.
our friend in Miami
will go along.
It's very kind of him.
You tell him
it's greatly appreciated.
Hyman Roth
always makes money
for his partners.
One by one.
our old friends are gone.
Death. natural or not.
prison. deported...
Hyman Roth
is the only one left.
because he always
made money
for his partners.
(GRUNTS)
I can't believe it! Out of
30 professional musicians
there isn't one Italian in.
in the group here.
Come on. Let's have
a tarantella! Come on...
(VOCALIZING)
(PIANO PLAYING)
You! Up!
Clarinet up. up. up!
(HUMMING TARANTELLA)
Questa mano!
(HUMMING)
(PLAYING POP!
GOES THE WEASEL)
(PEOPLE LAUGHING)
What the hell
have we here?
(BAND PLAYING MUSIC)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(GUESTS APPLAUDING)
I'll see my
sister alone.
It concerns me too.
Is it okay if I stay?
How are you. honey?
You've met Merle.
he was with me in Vegas.
I saw him with you.
Could I have a drink
or something?
Al. please
get him a drink!
We're going to Europe.
I'd like to book
passage on The Queen.
So what do you come to me for?
Why don't you go
to a travel agent?
We're getting
married first.
The ink on your divorce
isn't dry yet.
and you're getting married?
You see your children
on weekends.
You know your oldest boy.
Victor. was picked up in Reno
for some petty theft
you don't even know about.
Michael!
You fly around the world
with men who don't care for
you and use you like a whore.
You're not my father!
Then what do you
come to me for?
'Cause I need money.
Connie. Connie. Connie.
Connie. Connie. Connie...
(EXHALES DEEPLY)
I want to be
reasonable with you.
Now why don't you stay
with us...with the family?
You can live on the estate
with your kids.
You won't be deprived
of anything.
You can have everything
you want.
I don't know this Merle.
I don't know what he does
I don't know what he lives on.
Now why don't you
tell him that marriage
is out of the question.
and you don't want
to see him anymore.
He'll understand.
believe me.
(EXHALES FORCEFULLY)
Connie.
If you don't
listen to me
and marry this man.
you'll disappoint me.
(CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING
OVER P.A.)
WOMAN: Famiglia!
ALL: Cent' anni!
What's
"Chen dannay"?
"Cent' anni".
It means 100 years.
It means we should
all live happily for
100 years. The family.
It would be true
if my father were alive.
MAMA CORLEONE: Connie.
Hey...
Merle. you've met my
sister-in-law. Deanna.
Fredo's wife.
My pleasure.
How do you do?
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(EXCLAIMS IN ITALIAN)
(BAND PLAYING MUSIC)
(INAUDIBLE)
(DRUNKENLY) What's the matter?
I just...I just want to dance!
Dancing is one thing...
you're falling
all over the floor.
DEANNA: Oh. I know
what's the matter with you.
You're just jealous
because he's a real man!
I swear to God. Deanna.
I'm going to belt you
right in the teeth.
Ah! You couldn't belt
your mama!
You know something...
These Dagos are crazy
when it comes to their wives.
Michael says
that if you can't
take care of this.
I have to.
I think
you'd better.
DEANNA:
Never marry a Wop.
They treat their
wives like shit!
I didn't mean
to say Wop.
(SCREAMS) Don't! Rocco!
What are you doing to me.
you big slob? Help!
Fredo!
I can't control
her. Mikey.
You're my brother.
you don't have to apologize.
Clemenza promised the Rosato
brothers three territories in
the Bronx after he died.
You took over and
you didn't give it to them.
I welched.
MICHAEL: You welched.
Yeah. Clemenza promised them
lu cazzo.
Clemenza promised them
nothing.
He hated those
son-of-a-bitches
more than I do.
Frankie.
they feel cheated.
Michael...you're sitting high
up in the Sierra mountains.
And you're drinking. uh...
What's he drinking?
Champagne.
Champagne cocktails.
And passing judgment
on how I run my family.
(IN ITALIAN)
(SPEAKS ITALIAN)
You're a good old man
and I like you.
You were loyal
to my father for years.
The Rosato brothers
are taking hostages.
They spit
right in my face.
all because
they're backed up
by that Jew in Miami.
I know.
That's why I don't
want them touched.
You don't want
'em touched?
No.
I want you
to be fair with them.
You want me to
be fair with them?
(LAUGHS) How can you
be fair to animals?
Tom. for Crissakes. listen.
They recruit spics.
they recruit niggers.
They do violence in their...
in their Grandmothers'
neighborhoods!
And I tell you. everything
with them is whores! Whores!
And junk. dope!
And they leave
the gambling to last.
I want to run my family
without you on my back.
And I want those
Rosatos dead!
No.
Morti.
Now I have business
that's important
with Hyman Roth.
I don't want it
disturbed.
And you give
your loyalty to a Jew
before your own blood.
Come on. Frankie.
you know my father did
business with Hyman Roth.
He respected him.
Your father did business
with Hyman Roth. your father
respected Hyman Roth.
but your father
never trusted Hyman Roth
or his Sicilian
messenger boy.
Johnny Ola.
(SPEAKS ITALIAN)
(IN ENGLISH) I want
everybody here to know.
there's not going to be
no trouble from me!
Don Corleone.
(IN ITALIAN)
(DOOR SLAMMING)
(SIGHS)
You want him
to leave now?
Let him go back
to New York.
I've already made
my plans.
The old man
had too much wine.
It's late.
(BAND PLAYING MUSIC)
How's the baby?
Sleeping inside me.
Does it feel
like a boy?
Yes. Yes. it does. Michael.
Kay?
Hmm?
I'm sorry about
all the people today.
Bad timing.
It couldn't be
helped. though.
It made me think
of what you once
told me.
"In five years
the Corleone family
"will be completely
legitimate."
That was
seven years ago.
I know.
I'm trying. darling.
Did you see this?
Mmm-hmm.
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
Michael. why are
the drapes open?
(GUN FIRING)
(GUNFIRE STOPS)
(SHATTERED GLASS TINKLING)
(MICHAEL PANTING)
Kay. are you
all right?
Are you hit?
(PANTING) No.
(SOOTHINGLY)
It's over. It's over.
(ALARM RINGING)
MAN: Stop! Stop!
Halt!
(TIRES SCREECHING)
(DOGS BARKING)
They're still
on the property.
Please Michael.
Please stay inside.
Keep them alive.
We'll try.
Rocco! Alive!
Stay by the door.
(ALL CLAMORING)
(DOGS BARKING)
(TIRES SCREECHING)
(EXHALES SLOWLY)
(MAN SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY)
(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
Yeah. come in.
Mikey. are you
all right?
Yeah.
There's a lot
I can't tell you. Tom.
And I know
that's upset you
in the past.
A little.
Yeah.
You felt it was because
of some lack of trust
or confidence.
But it's...it's because
I admire you and love you
that I kept things
secret from you.
That's why at his moment
you're the only one
I completely trust.
Fredo?
Well. he's got
a good heart.
But he's weak
and he's stupid.
and this is
life and death.
Tom. you're my brother.
(SIGHS)
(VOICE TREMBLING) I always
wanted to be thought of
as a brother by you. Mikey.
A real brother.
I know that.
You're going
to take over.
You're going to be
the Don.
If what I think
has happened.
I'm leaving here tonight.
I give you
complete power.
Over Fredo and his men.
Rocco. Neri. everyone.
I'm trusting you
with the lives of my wife
and my children.
the future of this family.
If we catch these guys
do you think we'll be able to
find out who's backing them?
MICHAEL: We're not gonna
catch them.
Unless I'm very wrong.
they're dead already.
They were killed
by somebody close to us.
Inside.
Very. very frightened
that they botched it.
What about your people Rocco
and Neri?
You don't think that they had
something to do with this.
You see...
All our people
are businessmen.
Their loyalty
is based on that.
One thing I learned
from Pop
was to try to think
as people around you think.
And on that basis.
anything is possible.
(SCREAMING)
Mike. they're dead!
Right outside my window!
I want to get out of here.
They're lying there dead!
(SCREAMING)
(DOGS BARKING)
MAN: Over here!
There's two of them.
Looks like they were
hired out of New York.
I don't recognize them.
You won't get anything
out of them now.
Fish them out.
All right.
Get rid of the bodies.
Where's Mike?
Rocco.
(WHISPERING)
Anthony.
everything is going
to be all right.
Try to sleep.
Did you like
your party?
I got lots
of presents.
MICHAEL: I know.
Did you like them?
Yeah. I didn't know
the people who gave them
to me.
Hmm. Well. they were friends.
Did you see
my present for you?
MICHAEL: It was on my pillow.
Anthony. I'm going to be
leaving very early tomorrow.
Will you take me?
MICHAEL: No. I can't. Anthony.
Why do you have to go?
Because I have to do
business.
I could help you.
I know.
Some day you will.
Get some sleep.
(COOING)
(ALL SINGING IN ITALIAN)
(IN ITALIAN)
(MAN WOLF-WHISTLING)
(CROWD CHEERING
AND APPLAUDING)
(BAND PLAYING MUSIC)
(IN ITALIAN)
(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
(CHUCKLES)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(SPEAKS ITALIAN)
(AUDIENCE EXCLAIMING)
(SPEAKING IN ITALIAN)
Mamma! Mamma mia!
(SOBBING)
(BAND PLAYS MUSIC)
(SINGING IN ITALIAN)
(SPEAKING SOFTLY
IN ITALIAN)
(GASPS)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(IN ENGLISH) Let's go see her
backstage.
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(MAN SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(GASPING)
(PROTESTING)
(FANUCCI SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(IN ENGLISH)
Vito. come on.
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(CONTINUE CHATTERING
IN ITALIAN)
(IN ITALIAN)
(MAN BECKONING)
(BECKONING)
MAN: Hey.
you speak Italian?
(CLEMENZA SPEAKING IN ITALIAN)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(MUTTERS)
(CASH REGISTER BELL DINGS)
(LAUGHING)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(MUTTERING)
MAN: Vito!
Oh. no. no! No.
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(CONTINUE CHATTERING
IN ITALIAN)
(SPEAKS ITALIAN)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(IN ENGLISH)
Yeah. sure.
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(IN ENGLISH)
Come on in.
Hey. Vito. come on in!
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(REPLIES AFFIRMATIVELY
IN ITALIAN)
(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
(DOORBELL CHIMING)
(DOORKNOB RATTLING)
(SINGING SOFTLY
IN ITALIAN)
(BABY CRYING)
(CONTINUES CRYING)
(SOBBING)
(TRAIN HORN BLOWING)
MRS. ROTH: Come on in.
It's all right. Come on.
Hyman's in there.
I was just making
some lunch...
Would you like
a tuna sandwich?
Uh. no. thank you.
(MAN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY
ON TV)
MAN: (ON TV)
...pick up of two by Holden.
Second and eight for S.C...
MICHAEL: Mr. Roth?
Come in. Michael.
(CLEARS THROAT)
Sit down.
make yourself
comfortable.
It's almost over.
Do you follow
the football game?
Not for a while
I haven't.
I enjoy watching football
in the afternoon.
One of the things I love
about this country.
Baseball too.
I love baseball...
ever since Arnold Rothstein
fixed the World Series
in 1919.
(ROTH CHUCKLING)
I heard you had some trouble.
Stupid.
People behaving like that
with guns.
The important thing is
you're all right.
Good health is the most
important thing.
More than success.
more than money.
More than power.
(OBJECTS CLATTERING)
(RAISES TV VOLUME)
(CLEARS THROAT)
(SOFTLY) I came here
because there's going to be
more bloodshed.
I want you to know about it
before it happens
so that there's no danger
of starting another war.
Nobody wants
another war.
Frank Pentangeli came
to my home and he asked
my permission
to get rid of
the Rosato brothers.
When I refused he tried to
have me killed.
He was stupid.
I was lucky.
I'll visit him soon.
The important thing
is that nothing
interferes with our
plans for the future.
Yours and mine.
Nothing is
more important.
You're a wise and
a considerate young man.
And you're a great
man. Mr. Roth.
There's much
I can learn from you.
Whatever I can do
to help. Michael.
MRS. ROTH: Excuse me.
Lunch.
Come in.
Thank you.
my dear.
Honey Bunny. you're going to
break your eardrums.
(LOWERS TV VOLUME)
Enjoy it.
ROTH: Thank you.
(DOOR CLOSES)
You're young.
I'm old and sick.
What we'll do
in the next few months
will make history. Michael.
History. It's never been
done before.
Not even your father
would dream
that such a thing
could be possible.
Then Pentangeli
is a dead man.
You don't object?
He's small potatoes.
MAN: Hey Cicc'!
What's up?
We got company. huh?
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
Don Corleone.
I... I wish you would
have let me know
you were coming.
I could have
prepared something for you.
I didn't want you
to know I was coming.
(DOORS CLOSING)
You heard what happened
in my home?
Mike. I almost died myself.
we was all so relieved...
In my home!
In my bedroom
where my wife sleeps!
Where my children
come to play with their toys.
In my home.
I want you to help me
take my revenge.
Michael. anything.
What can I do?
Settle these troubles
with the Rosato brothers.
Mike. I don't understand.
I don't...
Look. I don't have
your brain for big deals.
But this is
a street thing.
That Hyman Roth
in Miami. That...
He's backing up
those sons-of-bitches.
I know he is.
Then why... Why do you ask me
to lay down to them. Mike?
It was Hyman Roth
that tried to have me killed.
I know it was him.
Jesus Christ. Mike.
Jesus Christ.
let's get them all.
Let's get 'em all now.
while we got the muscle.
(SIGHS)
This used to be
my father's old study.
It's changed.
I remember
there used to be
a big desk here.
I remember
when I was a kid. Frankie.
We had to be quiet when
we played near here.
I was very happy
that this house
never went to strangers.
First Clemenza
took it over.
Now you.
My father taught me
many things here.
He taught me in this room.
He taught me.
"Keep your friends close.
"but your enemies
closer."
If Hyman Roth sees
that I interceded in this.
in the Rosato brothers' favor.
he'll think his relationship
with me is still good.
(BOTH SPEAKING ITALIAN)
That's what
I want him to think.
I want him relaxed and
confident in our friendship.
Then I'll be able to find out
who the traitor
in my family was.
(PHONE RINGING)
(HANDSET CLATTERING)
Yeah?
JOHNNY: (OVER PHONE)
Fredo. this is Johnny...
Johnny Ola.
We need some more help.
Johnny?
Jesus Christ.
what the hell time
is it?
Who's that. honey?
(SHUSHING)
JOHNNY: (OVER PHONE)
Listen good. Fredo.
Why are you
calling me here for?
I don't want
to talk to you.
JOHNNY: (OVER PHONE)
Pentangeli set up a meeting
with the Rosato brothers
says he's gonna go
for their deal.
Oh. God.
JOHNNY: (OVER PHONE)
Will he come alone?
I don't know anything.
You've got me in
deep enough already.
JOHNNY: (OVER PHONE)
Just go along. Everything
will be all right. Fredo.
Pentangeli says
he's willing
to make the deal.
All we want to know
is if he's on the level. or
if he's gonna bring his boys.
You lied to me.
I don't want you
to call me anymore.
JOHNNY: (OVER PHONE)
Your brother's not gonna
find out we talked.
I don't know what
you're talking about.
(HANDSET CLATTERING)
(SIGHS)
Who was that?
Uh. wrong number.
(INDISTINCT CHATTERING)
Frankie. I've got
nobody here.
Wait in the car.
Cicc'.
Frankie.
That's okay. Cicc'.
What's this?
A lucky C note
for our new deal.
Ritchie.
Give us a taste.
We were all real happy
about your decision. Frankie.
You won't regret it.
I don't like
the C note. Rosato.
I take that
as an insult.
(SCREAMING)
Michael Corleone
says hello!
(GAGGING)
(SCREAMING)
BUTTON MAN: Get his head in.
TONY: Close the fuckin' door.
Your friend the cop.
what the...
Hey. Ritch.
It's dark in here.
Are you open or closed?
Hey. I just came in
to clean up a little.
you know?
What's the matter?
Is that something
on the floor?
RITCH: Carmine.
not here! Not here!
CARMINE: Anthony!
RITCH: Not here. Carmine.
let him go!
(ALL CLAMORING)
You open this fucking bar
and I'll blow your head in!
(GUNS FIRING)
(PEOPLE SCREAMING)
(TIRES SCREECHING)
(ENGINE PUTTERING)
(ENGINE STOPS)
MAN: Freddy. it's good
to see you.
How is he?
He's okay.
He's in the back.
Come on girls.
take a hike. eh.
In this room here.
I want to talk
to him alone first.
Come on. eh.
(DOOR CLOSING)
I thought I could
help you. Senator.
Hagen?
Listen. Hagen. I did not...
TOM: I know.
It's all right.
I didn't do anything.
It's okay.
You're very lucky.
My brother Fredo
operates this place.
He was called
before anyone.
Had this happened
someplace else.
we couldn't have helped you.
(EXHALES LOUDLY)
When I woke up.
I was on the floor.
And I don't know
how it happened.
TOM: You can't
remember?
I passed out.
I...I'll fix it.
(VOICE TREMBLING)
Just a game. Jesus.
(SOBS)
(SOBBING) Jesus. Jesus!
(INAUDIBLE)
GEARY: (SOBBING)
Jesus God! Oh. God!
(STUTTERING) I don't know.
and I don't understand
why I can't remember.
You don't have to remember.
just do as I say.
We're putting a call
into your office.
explain that you'll
be there tomorrow afternoon.
You decided to spend the night
at Michael Corleone's house
in Tahoe...
as his guest.
I do remember
that she was laughing.
We'd done it before.
and I know that I could not
have hurt that girl.
This girl has no family.
Nobody knows
that she worked here.
It'll be as though
she never existed.
All that's left
is our friendship.
KAY: Yes?
I'm sorry. Mrs. Corleone.
we're not to let you through.
I'm just going
to the market.
Well. if you'll just
give us a list.
we'll pick up anything
you want.
Whose orders are these?
Mr. Hagen's. ma'am.
He's coming over here now.
All right. well.
I'm just goin' to have to
speak with Mr. Hagen.
I wanted to explain.
but I had business
in Carson City.
Now. this is Michael's request
for your safety.
Now. we can send out
for anything you need.
I see. So I'm supposed to
stay in my house?
No. within the compound
will be fine.
Tom. I was going to take
the children to
New England next week.
That's off.
KAY: Am I a prisoner?
Is that it?
TOM: That's not the way
we look at it. Kay.
KAY: All right. Come on. kids.
We're going
back to the house.
TOM: Joe.
BOY: Cuba. Cuba!
(KIDS CLAMORING)
(BOY CHATTERING
IN SPANISH)
PRESIDENT: Most respected
gentlemen.
(TRANSLATOR REPEATS
IN SPANISH)
PRESIDENT: Allow me to welcome
you to the city of Havana.
(TRANSLATING)
I want to thank
this distinguished group
of American industrialists
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
for continuing
to work with Cuba
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
for the greatest
period of prosperity
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT:
...in her entire history.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT: Mr. William Shaw.
PRESIDENT:...representing
the General Fruit Company.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT: Messrs.
Corngold and Dant.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT:...of
United Telephone
and Telegraph Company.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT: Mr. Petty.
Regional Vice President
of the Pan American
Mining Corporation.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT: Mr. Robert Allen
of South American Sugar.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT:
Mr. Michael Corleone
of Nevada.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT:...representing
our associates in tourism
and leisure activities.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT: And my old friend
and associate from Florida.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT: Mr. Hyman Roth.
I would like to take
this opportunity to thank
United Telephone and Telegraph
for their lovely
Christmas gift.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
A solid gold telephone.
Perhaps you gentlemen
would like to look at it.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
GUEST 1: Mr. President?
Yes?
GUEST 1: Perhaps you
would discuss the status
of rebel activity
and. uh. what this can mean
to our businesses?
PRESIDENT: Of course.
Heavy stuff.
PRESIDENT: I assure you that.
although the rebels
have mounted an impressive
campaign in Las Villas.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT:...my staff
indicates. with assurance.
that we'll drive them
out of the city of Santa Clara
before the New Year.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
PRESIDENT: And I want to
put you all at ease.
(TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING)
We will tolerate no guerrillas
in the casinos or
the swimming pools.
(ALL LAUGHING)
(CAR HONKING)
(SPEAKING SPANISH)
He said that
they're making an arrest.
and in a few minutes
he'll let us through.
Johnny...
(SPEAKING IN ITALIAN)
(REBEL SHOUTING
IN SPANISH)
Viva Fidel!
(CAR HORN BLARING)
(EXCLAIMS)
I hope my age
is correct.
I'm always accurate
about my age.
Make sure that everybody
sees the cake
before we cut it.
(CLEARS THROAT)
I'm very pleased
you're all able to come
from such distances
to be with me today.
When a man comes
to this point
in his life.
he wants to
turn over the things
he's been blessed with.
Turn them over to friends.
as a reward for
the friends he's had
and to make sure
that everything goes well
after he's gone.
Not for years.
GUESTS: Hear. hear!
Well. we'll see.
The doctors would disagree.
but what do they know?
These are wonderful things
that we've achieved in Havana
and there's no limit
to where we can go from here.
This kind of government
knows how to help business.
to encourage it.
The hotels here
are bigger and swankier
than any of the rug joints
in Vegas.
We can thank our friends
in the Cuban government
which has put up half the cash
with the Teamsters.
on a dollar for dollar basis
and has relaxed
restrictions on imports.
What I'm saying is
that we have now
what we have
always needed...
Real partnership
with a government.
Smaller piece.
You all know
Michael Corleone
and we all remember
his father.
At the time
of my retirement.
or death.
I turn over all my interests
in the Havana operation
to his control.
Grazie.
But. all of you
will share.
The Nacionale will go
to the Lakeville Road Boys.
the Capri to
the Corleone family.
the Sevilla Biltmore also.
but Eddie Levine
will bring in the
Pennino brothers.
Dino and Eddie. for a piece
and to handle
the actual casino operations.
And we've saved a piece
for some friends
in Nevada
to make sure that things
go smoothly back home.
Uh...
I want all of you
to enjoy your cake.
So. enjoy!
GUESTS: Happy birthday!
L'chaim!
I saw an interesting thing
happen today.
A rebel was being arrested
by the military police.
Rather than be taken alive.
he exploded a grenade
he had hidden in his jacket.
He killed himself
and took a captain
of the command with him.
Right Johnny?
JOHNNY: Those rebels.
you know. they're lunatics.
Maybe so.
But it occurred to me.
that the soldiers
are paid to fight.
the rebels aren't.
What does that
tell you?
They can win.
This country
has had rebels
for 50 years.
It's in their blood.
Believe me I know.
I've been coming here
since the '20s.
We were running
molasses from Havana
when you were a baby.
The trucks.
owned by your father.
Michael.
I'd rather we
talked about this
when we're alone.
The two million
never got to the island.
I wouldn't want it to
get around that you
held back the money
because you had second
thoughts about the rebels.
Ah. sit down. Michael.
Sit down.
(SIGHS)
If I could only live
to see it. to be there
with you.
(EXCLAIMS LONGINGLY)
What I wouldn't give
for 20 more years.
Here we are. protected.
Free to make our profits
without Kefauver.
the goddamn
Justice Department
and the FBI.
Ninety miles away.
in partnership
with a friendly government.
Ninety miles.
It's nothing.
Just one small step
looking for a man
that wants to be
President of the United States
and having the cash
to make it possible.
Michael.
we're bigger
than U.S. Steel.
Mikey. how are you?
Okay?
Hi! Uh. Freddie Corleone.
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
Jesus Christ.
what a trip!
The whole time I'm thinkin'
"What if somebody knows
what I've got in here".
Can you imagine that. huh?
Two million dollars on the
seat next to me in the plane.
Whoa. Excuse me.
No. It's okay.
You want to
count it?
Mikey. what the hell
is going on anyway?
I'm totally
in the dark.
The family is making
an investment in Havana.
This is a little gift
for the President.
Oh.
(SIRENS WAILING IN A DISTANCE)
Well. that's great!
Havana's great.
It's my kind of town.
Anybody I know
in Havana?
Don't know.
Hyman Roth. Johnny Ola?
(SIRENS WAILING)
(QUIETLY) No.
No. I've never met them.
Listen. Mikey.
I'm. uh... I'm kind of...
Kind of nervous
from the trip.
(STUTTERING)
Can I get a drink
or something?
I thought maybe
we'd go out together.
I know a place
where we can spend
some time together. Okay?
Sometimes I think
I should have married
a woman like you did.
Like Kay.
Have kids.
Have a family.
For once in my life.
be more like...
Pop.
(SPANISH SONG PLAYING)
It's not easy
to be a son. Fredo.
It's not easy.
You know Mama
used to tease me.
She'd say. uh.
"You don't belong to me."
"You were left
on the doorstep
by gypsies."
Sometimes
I think it's true.
You're no gypsy.
Fredo.
Mikey. I was
mad at you.
Why didn't we spend
time like this before?
You want a drink.
right? Waiter!
Uh... Por favor...
How do you say
Banana Daiquiri?
Banana Daiquiri.
That's it?
That's it.
Uno Banana Daiquiri
WAITER: Banana Daiquiri.
si senor
and. uh. a club soda.
Senator Geary flies in
from Washington tomorrow night
with some people.
some government people.
I want you to show them
a good time in Havana.
That's my specialty.
right?
Can I trust you
with something. Fredo?
Of course. Mike.
Later on in the evening
we're all invited to the
Presidential Palace reception
to bring in the New Year.
After it's over
they'll take me home
in a military car. alone.
For my protection.
Before I reach my hotel.
I'll be assassinated.
Who?
Roth.
It was Roth who
tried to kill me
in my home.
It was Roth
all along.
He acts like I'm his son.
his successor.
But he thinks
he'll live forever
and wants me out.
How can I help?
Just go along.
as if you know nothing.
I've already made
my move.
What move?
Hyman Roth won't
see the New Year.
(DOCTOR SPEAKING SPANISH)
Says you have to
take it easy.
And he's gonna
give you a prescription.
He'll be back tomorrow.
I want my own doctor.
Fly him in from Miami.
I don't trust a doctor
who can't speak English.
WOMAN: Gracias. senor.
DOCTOR: Buenas noches.
Honey. go down to the casino.
Well. if you're sure
you're feeling better.
Feel fine.
(KISSES)
Play the
bingo game.
Okay. Nice to see you.
Mr. Paul.
Just make yourself
at home.
My sixth sense tells me
your brother Fredo brought
a bag full of money.
Where is it?
You're pulling out?
Just want to...
I just want to wait.
MICHAEL:
How do you feel?
(SCOFFS) Terrible.
I'd give four million
to be able to take
a piss without it hurting.
Who had
Frank Pentangeli killed?
The...Rosato brothers.
MICHAEL: I know.
but who gave
the go-ahead?
I know I didn't.
There was this kid
I grew up with.
He was younger
than me.
Sort of looked up
to me. you know.
We did our
first work together.
Worked our way
out of the street.
Things were good.
We made the most of it.
During Prohibition
we ran molasses
into Canada.
Made a fortune.
Your father. too.
As much as anyone.
I loved him
and trusted him.
Later on
he had an idea
to build a city
out of a desert stop-over
for G.I.s on the way
to the West Coast.
That kid's name
was Moe Greene
and the city he invented
was Las Vegas.
This was a great man.
A man of vision and guts.
And there isn't even
a plaque. or a signpost
or statue of him
in that town.
Someone put a bullet
through his eye.
No one knows
who gave the order.
When I heard it.
I wasn't angry.
I knew Moe.
I knew he was headstrong.
Talking loud.
saying stupid things.
So when he
turned up dead.
I let it go.
And I said to myself.
(SNAPS FINGERS)
"This is the business
we've chosen."
I didn't ask
who gave the order.
because it had nothing
to do with business.
That two million
in a bag in your room...
I'm going in
to take a nap.
When I wake.
if the money is
on the table.
I'll know I have a partner
If it isn't.
I'll know I don't.
(SHOW MUSIC PLAYING)
(MAN ANNOUNCING
IN SPANISH OVER P.A.)
(SINGING IN SPANISH)
All right does everybody know
everybody here. huh?
This is Senator Geary.
you know him.
How are you. Senator?
Good to see you. Mike.
I'm glad we could
spend this time together.
Right. this is Senator Payton
from Florida...
How you doing. Mike?
This is Judge DeMalco
from New York...
How do you do. sir?
Fine. thank you.
Right...Senator Ream
from Maryland...
REEVES: Mike. I've been
looking forward to it.
Fred Corngold from UTT.
That Freddie does a mean
cha-cha-cha
so watch out later.
MICHAEL: Oh he does. huh?
All right. gentlemen.
it's refill time here!
You might try some
of the local drinks. you know.
Cuba Libre...
Pina Colada...
I think I'll try
one of those...
redheaded Yolandas.
That you got!
Con gusto...
MICHAEL: Johnny!
You don't know my brother
Fredo. do you. Johnny?
Johnny Ola. Fredo.
We never met.
Johnny Ola.
Pleasure.
Gentlemen.
to a night
in Havana!
Happy New Year!
MAN 1: Happy New Year!
FREDO:
Feliz Ano Nuevo!
Happy New Year.
FREDO: Right. huh?
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
FREDO: Okay. get in there.
GEARY: Never fear.
Pat Geary is here.
(SLOW MUSIC PLAYING)
GEARY: Hey! Hey. Freddy
why are we standing?
Everybody stands.
But it's worth it.
Watch. You're not gonna
believe this.
GEARY: I don't
believe it already.
FREDO: Huh?
Fifty dollars. right?
GEARY: You've got
a bet. mister.
(MUSIC CONTINUES)
(CROWD APPLAUDS)
That's him.
That's Superman.
(CROWD EXCLAIMING)
Did I tell you
or did I tell you?
GEARY: I don't
believe it!
That thing's
gotta be a fake.
That ain't no fake.
that's real.
That's why they
call him Superman.
GEARY: Hey. Freddy.
Freddy. where did you
find this place?
Johnny Ola told me
about this place.
He brought me here.
I didn't believe him.
but seeing is believing. huh!
GEARY: I see it.
but still don't
believe it!
FREDO: Fifty bucks. Pat.
Old man Roth would
never come here.
but Old Johnny
knows these places
like the back of his hand!
Now watch him.
he's gonna break
the cracker with it.
GEARY: Break a cracker...
I want to see him
break a brick.
(LAUGHING)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(GASPS)
(GRUNTS)
(SIREN WAILING)
Relax. Senor Roth.
we're taking you
to the hospital.
(EXHALES DEEPLY)
(INDISTINCT CHATTER)
(DOOR OPENING)
(MUSIC PLAYING)
GEARY:...and in my judgment
you'll continue to get those
because I don't believe that
President Eisenhower would
ever pull out of Cuba...
Not as we have over
one billion dollars
invested in this country.
Now. the American public
believe in
non-intervention...
Fredo!
Where are you going?
I'm getting a real drink.
because I can't...
(MAN GROANING)
(MUSIC PLAYING)
What kept Mr. Roth?
I understood he was coming.
Hey. Reeves.
what's the protocol?
How long should we
stay around?
REEVES: Oh. I don't know.
I think a half hour
ought to do it.
Just long enough to
bring in the New Year.
(NURSES CHATTERING)
(SHUSHING)
(SPEAKING IN SPANISH)
(CHAMPAGNE CORK
POPPING)
(PEOPLE LAUGHING)
(SHRIEKS)
(PEOPLE CHEERING)
(MUSIC PLAYING)
(SOFTLY) There's a plane
waiting to take us
to Miami in an hour.
Don't make a big thing
about it.
I know it was
you. Fredo.
You broke my heart.
(WHISPERING FIERCELY)
You broke my heart!
(PEOPLE EXCLAIMING. CHEERING)
(MAN SHOUTING IN SPANISH)
(IN SPANISH)
Salud! Salud! Salud!
(MAN ON MEGAPHONE
SPEAKING SPANISH)
(EXPLOSION)
(PEOPLE SHOUTING)
(CAR HONKING)
(SIREN WAILING)
MICHAEL: Fredo!
Come on.
Come with me.
It's the only way
out of here tonight.
Roth is dead. Fredo...
Fredo. come with me!
You're still my brother.
Fredo!
(TIRES SCREECHING)
(MAN ON MEGAPHONE
ANNOUNCING IN SPANISH)
I'm Pat Geary.
United States Senator.
(CHANTING SLOGANS IN SPANISH)
(MAN ON MEGAPHONE
CHANTING SLOGANS IN SPANISH)
(CROWD CHEERING)
CROWD: (CHANTING)
Fidel! Fidel! Fidel!
Al. Get me
a wet towel.
Kay know I'm back?
What about my boy?
Did you get him
something for Christmas?
I took care of it.
What was it.
so I'll know.
Well. it was a little car
with an electric motor
that he can ride in.
It's nice.
Thank you. Al.
Fellows.
could you step outside
for a minute please?
Where's my brother?
Uh...
Roth got out
on a private boat.
He's in a hospital in Miami.
He had a stroke.
but recovered okay.
Your bodyguard
is dead.
I asked
about Fredo.
I think he got out.
He must be somewhere
in New York.
All right.
I want you to get
in touch with him.
I know he's scared.
Tell him everything
is all right.
Tell him I know
Roth misled him.
That he didn't know
they would try to kill me.
They can come in now.
TOM: Uh. there was
something else.
What?
What? Come on. What?
Kay had a miscarriage.
She lost the baby.
Was it a boy?
Mikey. after three
and a half months...
(SHOUTING)
Can't you give me
a straight answer?
Was it a boy?
TOM: I really
don't know.
(BABY CRYING IN A DISTANCE)
(BABY CRYING)
(IN ITALIAN)
(HORN HONKING)
(EXCLAIMS)
(IN ITALIAN)
(BRAKES SQUEALING)
(SPEAKS MENACINGLY)
(IN ITALIAN)
CLEMENZA: Who?
Joe The Greek
and Frank Pignattaro.
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(IN ENGLISH)
I'll take care
of everything.
(IN ITALIAN)
Si.
Ah.
Salute!
(BAND PLAYING MUSIC)
(BAND PLAYING
THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER)
(IN ITALIAN)
Vito. here's my $50.
Buona fortuna.
(IN ITALIAN)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(IN ENGLISH)
I'll make an offer
he don't refuse.
Don't worry.
(IN ITALIAN)
(CHUCKLING)
(SLURPING)
MAN: Don Fanucci.
(SPEAKING IN ITALIAN)
(PUPPETEER SPEAKING
IN ITALIAN)
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
(PUPPETEER SPEAKING
IN ITALIAN)
(IN ITALIAN)
(PRIEST SPEAKING LATIN)
(KEYS JINGLING)
(EXHALES DEEPLY)
(FUMBLING WITH LOCK)
(FIREWORKS EXPLODING)
(CROWD CHEERING)
(IN ITALIAN)
(GUN FIRING)
(GROANS)
(FIREWORKS BURSTING)
(GASPS)
(SCREAMS)
(CROWD CHEERING)
(METAL CLATTERING)
(PEOPLE CHATTERING EXCITEDLY)
(MUSICIAN SINGING
MELANCHOLY MELODY
IN ITALIAN)
(IN ITALIAN)
(MACHINE WHIRRING SOFTLY)
SENATOR: Mr. Cicci.
from the year 1942
to the present time.
you were an employee of the
Genco Olive Oil Company?
That's right.
But in actuality
you were a member
of the Corleone
crime organization.
Uh... No. we called it
the Corleone family.
Senator.
We call it the family.
What was
your position?
At first.
like everybody else.
I was a soldier.
What is that?
CICCI: A button you know.
Senator. come on.
No. I don't know.
Tell me.
CICCI: When the boss says
"push a button" on a guy.
I push a button.
See. Senator?
CHAIRMAN: Mr. Questadt.
You mean
you kill people?
CICCI: I what?
You kill
people at the. uh...
at the behest
of your superiors.
(INAUDIBLE)
Yeah. that's right.
Counselor.
QUESTADT: And the. uh.
the head of your family
is Michael Corleone?
Yeah. Counselor.
Michael Corleone. Right.
SENATOR: Did you ever get
such an order directly
from Michael Corleone?
No. I never
talked to him.
Mr. Cicci.
could you amplify
your answer a bit?
CICCI: Do what?
Could you expand
on your answer?
I'm particularly
interested in knowing. uh.
was there always
a buffer involved?
Someone in between you
and your possible superiors
who gave the actual order.
Right. yeah. a buffer.
The family had
a lot of buffers!
(PEOPLE LAUGHING)
CHAIRMAN: Mr. Cicci. you may
find this very amusing.
but the members of
this committee do not.
(IN ITALIAN)
(VENDOR SPEAKING IN ITALIAN)
(SPEAKING IN ITALIAN)
(IN ENGLISH)
If there's something
I can do for you.
you come.
we talk. huh.
(SPEAKING IN ITALIAN)
(IN ITALIAN)
(BABY CRYING)
(SPEAKING IN ITALIAN)
(IN ITALIAN)
(IN ENGLISH)
Impossible.
(IN ITALIAN)
(MAN SPEAKING
IN ITALIAN)
(EXCLAIMS)
(CURSES IN ITALIAN)
(IN ITALIAN)
(SPEAKING IN ITALIAN)
Un. due. three.
four. five. six. tutt'!
(IN ENGLISH)
The rent stays
like before!
(THANKING IN ITALIAN)
(EXCLAIMS)
(GIBBERING NERVOUSLY
IN ITALIAN)
CLEMENZA: Vito.
what do you think?
God bless America.
We're gonna make
a big business.
(CAR HONKING)
(ALL SHOUTING IN ITALIAN)
(HORN BLARING)
MICHAEL: New York City.
CHAIRMAN: Would you
mind speaking up. please?
New York City.
CHAIRMAN: Are you the son
of Vito Corleone?
Yes. I am.
CHAIRMAN: Where was he born?
MICHAEL: Corleone.
Sicily.
Did he at times use an alias
that was known in certain
circles as Godfather?
Godfather is a term that was
used by his friends...
One of affection.
one of respect.
Uh. Mr. Chairman.
I would like to verify
the witness' statement.
For years now. a growing
number of my constituents
have been of Italian descent.
And I've come to
know them well.
They have honored me
with their support
and their friendship.
Indeed. I can proudly say
that some
of my very best friends
are Italian-Americans.
However. Mr. Chairman.
at this time unfortunately
I have to leave
these proceedings
in order to preside
over a very important
meeting of my own committee.
But before I leave.
I do want to say this.
that these
hearings on the Mafia
are in no way whatsoever
a slur upon
the great Italian people.
Because I can state
from my own knowledge
and experience
that Italian-Americans
are among the most loyal.
most law-abiding.
patriotic. hard-working
American citizens
in this land.
It would be a shame.
Mr. Chairman.
if we allowed
a few rotten apples
to give a bad name
to the whole barrel.
Because from the time
of Christopher Columbus
to the time of Enrico Fermi.
right up to the present day.
Italian-Americans
have been pioneers
in building and defending
our great nation.
They are the salt
of the earth.
and one of the backbones
of this country.
(PEOPLE APPLAUDING)
CHAIRMAN:
I'm sure we all agree
with our esteemed colleague.
Now Mr. Corleone.
you have been advised
as to your legal rights.
We have testimony
from a previous witness.
one Willi Cicci.
He stated that you are
head of the most powerful
Mafia family in the country.
Are you?
MICHAEL: No. I'm not.
CHAIRMAN: The witness
has testified that you are
personally responsible
for the murder
of a New York
police captain in 1947
and with him a man
named Virgil Sollozzo.
Do you deny this?
Yes. I do.
Is it true
that in the year 1950
you devised the murder
of the heads of the so-called
"Five Families" in New York
to assume and consolidate
your nefarious power?
It's a complete
falsehood.
CHAIRMAN:
Mr. Questadt.
Is it true you have
a controlling interest
in three of the major
hotels in Las Vegas?
No. it's not true.
I own some stock in
some of the hotels there.
but very little.
I also have stock
in IBM and IT&T.
Mr. Corleone. do you have
any interests or control
over gambling and narcotics
in the state of New York?
No. I do not.
Senator. my client would like
to read a statement
before this committee.
Mr. Chairman... Mr. Chairman.
I think this statement
is totally out of order
at this time.
Sir. my client has answered
every question
asked by this committee
with the utmost sincerity.
He hasn't taken
the Fifth Amendment.
as it was his right.
so this statement
should be heard!
(INAUDIBLE)
No. No. I'm going to
allow Mr. Corleone
to read his statement.
I'll put it in the record.
In the hopes of clearing
my family name
and in the sincere desire to
give my children
their fair share
of the American way of life.
without a blemish
on their name
and background.
I have appeared
before this committee
and given it all the
cooperation in my power.
I consider it
a great dishonor
to me personally
to have to deny
that I am a criminal.
I wish to have the following
noted for the record...
That I served my country
faithfully and honorably
in World War Two
and was awarded
the Navy Cross
for actions in defense
of my country.
That I have never been
arrested or indicted
for any crime what-so-ever.
That no proof linking me
to any criminal conspiracy
whether it is called Mafia
or Cosa Nostra
or whatever other name
you wish to give
has ever
been made public.
I have not taken refuge
behind the Fifth Amendment.
although it's my right
to do so.
I challenge this committee
to produce any witness
or evidence against me
and if they do not.
I hope
they will have the decency
to clear my name
with the same publicity
with which they have
besmirched it.
CHAIRMAN: I'm sure
we're all quite impressed.
Mr. Corleone.
Particularly with your love
for our country.
The committee will stand
in recess until 10 A.M.
Monday morning.
when we will
produce a witness
who'll corroborate
the charges that are made
against you today.
At which time. Mr. Corleone.
you may very well be
subject to indictment
for perjury.
I remind you that you're
still under subpoena.
Mr. Corleone.
This court is adjourned!
(PEOPLE CHATTERING
ANIMATEDLY)
Ten-to-one (CHUCKLES)
ten-to-one shot. you said.
A ten-to-one shot
he would take the Fifth.
and I'd lose.
You sound
like my bookie.
I owe that monkey
my life.
Well. just get
a good night's sleep.
(GRUMBLING)
Yeah. Good night.
You've got
a big day
tomorrow.
I've got you
a new suit. new
shirt. new tie.
I'm gonna shave you myself
in the morning.
And you're gonna look
respectable for 50 million
of your fellow Americans.
Tomorrow... My life?
My life won't be worth
a nickel after tomorrow.
Come on! I saw this...
I saw this 19 times.
FBI MAN 1: You've got
a great home here. Frankie.
for the rest of your life.
Nobody gets near you.
you're not going anywhere.
(BILLIARD BALLS CLATTERING)
That's great. Beautiful.
Some deal I made.
Ah. you'll live like a king.
You'll be a hero.
You'll live better here than
most people on the outside.
Some deal!
(SCOFFS)
MICHAEL:
(WHISPERING)
Alive.
Pentangeli
is alive.
How did they get
their hands on him?
Roth.
He engineered it.
Michael.
When Frankie went
to make a deal with
the Rosato brothers
and they tried to kill him.
He thought you
double-crossed him.
Our people with the
New York detectives said
he was half dead. scared stiff
and talking out loud
that you'd turned on him.
They already had him
on possession. bookmaking.
murder one and a lot more.
The FBI has him
airtight.
He's on an army base.
24 hour guards.
TOM: No way we can get to him.
We've opened it up
to five counts of perjury.
What about Fredo?
What does he know?
He says he doesn't
know anything.
and I believe him.
Roth. well. he...he played
this one beautifully.
I'm going to
talk to Fredo.
I haven't got
a lot to say. Mike.
We have time.
I was kept
pretty much
in the dark.
I didn't know
all that much.
What about now?
Is there anything
you can help me out with?
Anything you can
tell me now?
They've got Pentangeli.
That's all I can tell you.
I didn't know
it was going to be
a hit. Mike.
I swear to God I didn't know
it was gonna be a hit.
Johnny Ola
bumped into me
in Beverly Hills.
He said that he
wanted to talk.
He said that
you and...and Roth
were in on a
big deal together.
And that there was
something in it for me
if I could help him out.
He said that you
were being tough
on the negotiations
but if they could get
a little help
and close
the deal fast.
it...it would be good
for the family.
And you believed
that story?
You believed that?
He said there was
something in it for me.
on my own!
I've always taken
care of you. Fredo.
(INCREDULOUSLY)
Taken care of me?
You're my kid brother!
You take care of me?
Did you ever think
about that. huh?
Did you ever once
think about that?
"Send Fredo off to do this.
send Fredo off to do that!"
"Let Fredo take care
of some Mickey Mouse
nightclub somewhere."
"Send Fredo to pick
somebody at the airport!"
I'm your older brother.
but was stepped over!
MICHAEL: (SOFTLY)
That's the way Pop wanted it.
It ain't the way
I wanted it!
I can handle things.
I'm smart!
Not like everybody says.
Like dumb. I'm smart
and I want respect!
Is there
anything you can tell me
about this investigation?
Anything more?
The Senate lawyer.
Questadt.
He belongs to Roth.
(SIGHS)
Fredo.
you're nothing
to me now.
You're not a brother.
not a friend.
I don't want to know you.
or what you do.
I don't want to see you
at the hotels.
I don't want you
near my house.
When you see
our mother.
I want to know a day
in advance.
so I won't be there.
You understand?
Mikey.
I don't want
anything to happen to him
while my mother's alive.
(PEOPLE CHATTERING SOFTLY)
REPORTER: Here he comes now.
There's more people
than at a ballgame in here.
(LAUGHING)
Hey. there's
Willi Cicci!
MAN: Frankie Five-Angels...
CHAIRMAN: This committee
will come to order!
State your name.
please.
PENTANGELI: Frank Pentangeli.
CHAIRMAN: And where
were you born?
PENTANGELI: Partinico.
it's outside of Palermo.
And where do you
live now?
I live in an army barracks
with the FBI guys.
(PEOPLE LAUGHING)
We have here. finally.
a witness that will
further testify
to Michael Corleone's rule
of a criminal empire
that controls all gambling
in this country...and perhaps
another country.
This witness
has had no buffer
between himself
and Michael Corleone.
He can corroborate
our charges on enough counts
for us to recommend
a charge of perjury
against Michael Corleone.
Senator.
Thank you. Chairman.
SENATOR:
Mr. Pentangeli.
Were you a member
of the Corleone family?
Did you serve
under Caporegime.
Peter Clemenza.
and under Vito Corleone.
also known as the Godfather?
I. uh. I never knew
any Godfather.
(PEOPLE MURMURING)
I have
my own family. Senator.
QUESTADT:
Mr. Pentangeli. you. uh...
You are contradicting
your own sworn statement
that you previously
made to me and signed.
I ask you again. sir.
here and now under oath...
were you at any time
a member of
a crime organization
led by Michael Corleone?
I don't know
nothing about that!
Oh!
I was in
the olive oil business
with his father
but that was
a long time ago.
That's all.
We have a sworn affidavit.
We have it.
Your sworn affidavit.
that you murdered
on the orders of
Michael Corleone.
Do you deny
this confession.
and do you realize
what will happen as a result
of your denial?
Look. the FBI guys.
they promised me a deal
so I made up a lot of stuff
about Michael Corleone.
'cause that's what
they wanted.
(STUTTERS)
But it was all lies.
Uh... Everything!
They kept saying. uh.
"Michael Corleone did this"
and "Michael Corleone
did that".
So I said. uh.
"Yeah. sure.
Why not?"
Mr. Corleone. would you
kindly identify the gentleman
sitting to your left?
I can
answer that.
His name is
Vincenzo Pentangeli.
SENATOR 2: Is he related
to the witness?
He is. I believe.
his brother.
Will he come forward
and be sworn. sir?
Sir. this man doesn't
understand English.
He came at his own expense
to aid his brother
in this time of trouble.
He's not under subpoena
and his reputation in his
own country is impeccable.
QUESTADT:
Are you saying he knows
nothing about these matters?
To my knowledge.
nothing.
I'm going to find out
what happened!
All right. this committee
is now adjourned.
The witness is excused.
TOM: Senator!
Senator! This committee
owes an apology!
This committee
owes an apology.
Apology. Senator!
(SPEAKING ITALIAN)
Michael. excuse me.
Hello. darling.
The children are outside.
We're going.
What do you mean going?
We're all gonna
leave tomorrow.
Uh. Rocco?
I'll be in
my room. Mike.
Michael. I'm not
going back to Nevada.
I brought the children
to say goodbye to you.
I want you to know.
I'm very happy for you.
I suppose I always knew
you were too smart
to let any of them beat you.
Why don't you
sit down?
No. no. I'm not going
to stay long.
There are some things
I'd like to talk to you about.
Some things that have
been on my mind.
changes
I want to make.
I think it's too late
for changes. Michael.
I promised myself.
I wasn't going to
say anything and now...
MICHAEL: What do you mean.
"too late"?
What really happened
with Pentangeli. Michael?
His brother came
and helped him.
KAY: I didn't even know
he had a brother.
And where is he now?
He's on a plane.
back to Sicily.
All he had to do
was show his face.
It was between
the brothers. Kay.
I had nothing
to do with it.
(GIGGLING)
MICHAEL:
I don't want you going!
Not you. not the kids. No.
You're my wife.
they're my children.
I love you and
won't allow it.
Michael. you say you love me.
and then you talk about
allowing me to leave!
Listen. there are things that
have been going on for years
between men and women
that will not change.
Michael. you're blind.
You've become blind.
Michael!
Blind to what?
Look what's happened to us.
My. God! Look what's happened
to our son. Michael!
Nothing's happened to him.
Don't tell me nothing's...
MICHAEL: Anthony's fine!
Anthony is not fine!
I don't want to
hear about it.
You will hear about it.
Anthony's friends...
I don't want to hear about it.
MICHAEL: I don't want to
hear about it!
...are your button men!
Over!
At this moment
I feel no love
for you at all.
I never thought
that would ever happen.
but it has.
Kay...
We're leaving
tomorrow.
Kay. why don't you
take the kids
back to their room?
Michael.
you haven't heard me.
Kay. what do you
want from me?
Do you expect me
to let you go?
Do you expect me to let you
take my children from me?
Don't you know me?
Don't you know that
that's an impossibility?
That. that could never happen.
That I'd use all my power
to keep something like that
from happening?
Don't you know that?
Kay...
In time.
you'll feel
differently.
You'll be glad
I stopped you now.
I know that.
I know you blame me
for losing the baby.
Yes.
I know what that
meant to you.
I'll make it up
to you. Kay.
I swear
I'll make it up
to you. I'll...
I'm going to change.
I'll change.
I've learned that I have
the strength to change.
Then you'll forget
about this miscarriage
and we'll have
another child.
And we'll go on.
you and I.
We'll go on.
(GROANS)
Oh. Michael!
Michael. you are blind.
It wasn't
a miscarriage.
It was an abortion.
An abortion.
Michael.
Just like our marriage
is an abortion.
Something that's
unholy and evil!
I didn't want
your son. Michael!
I wouldn't bring
another one of your sons
into this world!
It was an abortion.
Michael.
It was a son
and I had it killed
because this must all end!
I know now
that it's over.
I knew it then.
There would be
no way. Michael.
no way you could
ever forgive me.
Not with this Sicilian thing
that's been going on
for 2.000...
(SCREAMS)
(SEETHING)
You won't take
my children.
(SOBBING) I will.
(BELLOWING) You won't
take my children!
(SOBBING) They're
my children too.
(BAND PLAYING)
(ALL CHATTERING)
Fredo. give this
to Grandmother.
(ALL COMMENTING APPRECIATIVELY
IN ITALIAN)
(CHATTERING IN ITALIAN)
(CHUCKLING)
(TOASTING IN ITALIAN)
(ROUSING QUIETLY)
(IN ITALIAN)
(READING IN ENGLISH)
(BECKONS IN ITALIAN)
(STATES HIS NAME
IN ITALIAN)
(REPEATS
INQUISITIVELY)
(LAUGHS)
(SCREAMING)
(CURSING IN ITALIAN)
(GUN FIRING)
(CAR ENGINE STARTING)
(WARNING)
(GROANING)
Michael. say goodbye.
Hi. Al.
Tom? Can I speak with you
for a second. Tom?
Tom. where's Mike?
Waiting for you
to leave.
Can I talk
with him?
Sorry. Fredo.
No chance.
CONNIE:
Can I see him?
He's in
the boathouse.
CONNIE: Michael.
it's Connie.
Michael...
I'd like to stay
close to home now.
if it's all right.
Is Kay coming?
No.
Fredo's in the house
with Mama.
He asked for you
and Tom said
you wouldn't see him.
That's right.
Kids. why don't you
go outside for a while?
Please. I want to
talk to you.
Michael. I hated you
for so many years.
I think I did
things to myself.
to hurt myself.
so that you'd know
that I could
hurt you.
You were just being
strong for all of us.
the way Papa was.
And I forgive you.
Can't you forgive
Fredo?
He's so sweet.
and helpless without you.
You need me. Michael.
I want to take care
of you now.
Connie.
Tom. sit down.
(INQUIRING
IN ITALIAN)
Our friend
and business partner.
Hyman Roth. is in the news.
Did you hear
about it?
I hear that he's
in Israel.
Mmm-hmm.
The High Court in Israel
turned down his request
to live there as a return Jew.
His passport's
been invalidated.
except for return
to the United States.
He landed in Buenos Aires
yesterday.
He offered a gift
of a million dollars
if they'd let him live there.
They turned him down.
He's going
to try Panama.
Panama
won't take him.
Not for a million.
not for ten million.
ROCCO: His condition is
reported as terminal.
He's only gonna live
another six months anyway.
He's been dying of the same
heart attack for 20 years.
That plane
goes to Miami.
MICHAEL: That's right.
That's where I want it met.
Mike. that's impossible.
They'll turn him over
directly to
the Internal Revenue.
Customs and half the FBI.
It's not impossible.
Nothing's impossible.
It would be
like trying to kill
the President.
There's no way
we can get to him!
Tom. you know.
you surprise me.
If anything in this life
is certain.
if history has
taught us anything.
it's that you
can kill anyone.
Rocco?
Difficult.
Not impossible.
Good.
Why did you ask me
if something was wrong
when I came in?
MICHAEL: I thought you were
going to tell me that
you were moving
your family to Vegas
and that you'd been offered
the. uh. Vice Presidency of
the Houstan hotels there.
I thought that you were
gonna tell me that.
I turned 'em down
I mean do I have
to tell you about every
offer that I turn down?
Let's do business.
TOM: All right.
Just consider this. Michael.
That's all. Just consider it.
Now. Roth and the Rosatos
are on the run.
Are they worth it.
are they strong enough?
Is it worth it?
You've won. Do you want
to wipe everybody out?
I don't feel I have to
wipe everybody out. Tom.
Just my enemies.
that's all.
Are you gonna come along
with me on these things
I have to do. or what?
Because if not.
you can take your wife.
your family and your mistress
and move them all
to Las Vegas.
(SNORTS)
Why do you hurt me.
Michael?
I've always been
loyal to you.
I mean...
What is this?
(IN ITALIAN)
Now. what is it that
you want me to do?
Hey. Anthony.
Anthony. how would
you like it if I...
How would you like it
if I taught you
how to catch
the really big fish?
Would you
like that?
Okay.
You know.
when I was your age.
I went out fishing
with all my brothers
and my father. Everybody.
I was... I was
the only one that
caught a fish.
Nobody else
could catch one.
Do you know
how I did it?
Every time I put
the line in the water
I said a Hail Mary
and every time
I said a Hail Mary.
I caught a fish.
Do you believe that?
It's true.
That's the secret.
Do you want to try it
out on the lake?
Okay.
What else
have you got?
(SIGHS
FORCEFULLY)
Everything's gonna
be okay. Frankie.
don't worry.
Did my brother
go back?
Yeah. don't worry.
He's ten times
tougher than me.
my brother.
He's old-fashioned.
Yeah.
He didn't even want
to go out to dinner.
he just wanted
to go straight home.
That's my brother!
There's nothing could
get him away from
that two-mule town.
He could have been
big here. He could have
had his own family.
Tom.
what do I do now?
Frankie.
You were always interested
in politics and history.
I remember you
talking about Hitler
back in '33.
Yeah. I still
read a lot.
I get good stuff
in there.
You were around
the old-timers.
who dreamed of how
the families should
be organized.
basing them on
the old Roman legions.
and call 'em "regimes."
the "capos" and "soldiers".
And it worked.
Yeah.
it worked.
Those were the great
old days. you know.
We was like
the Roman Empire.
The Corleone family
was like the Roman Empire.
Yeah.
it was once.
Frankie.
When a plot against
the Emperor failed
the plotters were
always given a chance
to let their families
keep their fortunes.
Right?
Yeah. but only
the rich guys. Tom.
The little guys.
they got knocked off
and all their estates
went to the Emperors.
Unless they went home
and they killed themselves.
then nothing
happened.
And their families...
Their families
were taken
care of. Tom.
That was a good break.
a nice deal.
Yeah.
They. uh.
they went home
and sat
in a hot bath
opened up
their veins
and bled
to death.
And sometimes they
had a little party
before they did it.
Don't worry about anything.
Frankie Five-Angels.
Thanks. Tom.
Thanks.
See you. Tom.
TOM: Addio.
Frankie.
Kay. You have to go.
So pretty...
Kay. please hurry.
He's coming.
Anthony.
Kiss Mama goodbye.
Anthony. will you
kiss your mother
goodbye!
Anthony.
say goodbye
to Mama.
Anthony.
I love you.
Kay. please.
All right.
Mary. come here.
Anthony.
Anthony. please.
Kiss me once.
(KAY SOBBING)
(BOAT ENGINE
ROARING DISTANTLY)
Easy.
CONNIE: Anthony!
Anthony!
He's here.
we're going fishing.
No!
Michael wants to
take him to Reno now.
Oh. shit!
Okay. kid. you have to
go to Reno with your pop.
Come on. Anthony.
I'll take you fishing
again tomorrow. okay?
Huh?
Okay.
Atta boy.
Hey. Anthony.
Listen. I'll catch one
for you in secret. Huh?
All right. okay. good.
Okay. let's go.
Mr. Roth. you understand
I'll have to
take you into custody.
Yes. I understand.
REPORTER: Can you give us
your reaction
to the High Court
of Israel's ruling?
I'm a retired investor
on a pension.
I went to Israel because
I wish to live there as a Jew.
in the twilight of my life.
Hey. Frankie!
Come on out. let's
play some Hearts.
Frankie!
REPORTER 2: Is it true
you're worth over 300
million dollars. Mr. Roth?
I'm a retired investor.
living on a pension.
I came home to vote
in the presidential election
because they
wouldn't give me
an absentee ballot.
(ALL LAUGHING)
(GUN FIRING)
(PEOPLE SCREAMING)
(GUN FIRES)
Jesus Christ.
FREDO: Hail Mary.
full of grace.
The Lord is with thee.
Blessed art thou
amongst women.
Blessed is the fruit
of thy womb. Jesus.
Holy Mary. Mother of God.
pray for us sinners.
(GUN FIRING)
Hey! Everybody. come on.
pay attention. Come here.
This is my friend
Carlo Rizzi.
My brother Fredo. Oh.
you know my brother Fredo.
Sure.
This is my
stepbrother Tom.
and that's
his girl Theresa.
This cute little thing
over here is my
sister Connie
I was tellin' you
about. huh?
Say hello to Carlo.
He's good-looking.
isn't he?
Yes.
(CHUCKLING)
Oh. that droopy thing
over there.
that's my brother Mike.
We call him Joe College.
Go on. Sit down.
Go ahead.
Talk to each other.
Sit down.
Hey. Mr. Einstein...
(CHATTERING)
Here's the cake.
Hey. Sally.
get in here!
I was scared.
Come on.
Where's your father?
Took him on
a wild goose chase.
Christmas shopping.
Let's see that thing.
(ALL EXCLAIMING)
Oh. honey.
that's nice. huh!
Should I put
the candles on now?
Yeah. Go on.
You help her. eh. Carlo.
Sure.
Hey. what is that? Rum?
Yeah.
Sonny. come on.
don't touch the antipasto
until Pop sees it.
He's not ugly...
I say. what do you think
of the nerve of
them Japs. huh?
Them slanty
eyed bastards. huh?
Dropping bombs
in our own backyard
on Pop's birthday.
They didn't know
it was Pop's birthday.
it was Pop's... (SCOFFS)
We should have expected it
after the oil embargo.
Expected?
Expected or not.
they've got no right
dropping bombs!
Are you a Jap-lover
or something.
you on their side?
I understand
30.000 men enlisted
this morning.
Bunch of saps...
Why are they
saps?
Honey. come on.
we don't have to
talk about the war.
Hey. you talk
to Carlo. all right?
Only saps because they risk
their lives for strangers.
Oh. that's Pop talking.
SONNY: You're goddamn right.
that's Pop talking!
They risk their lives
for their country.
Country ain't
your blood.
Remember that.
I don't feel that way.
SONNY: I don't feel that way.
Well. if you don't
feel like that.
why don't you
just quit college
and join the army!
I did.
I've enlisted
in the Marines.
Mike. why didn't you
come to us?
What do you mean?
Pop had to pull
a lot of strings
to get you a deferment.
I didn't ask
for it.
for deferment.
I didn't want it.
Come on. come on!
Knock it off!
Come on. hey. Sonny.
Punk!
Sonny.
Sonny. Sonny. sit.
No. no. you go on.
Sit... Sit down.
Mommy. Daddy's
fighting again!
(KIDS LAUGHING)
Go and show Carlo
the tree.
(GIRL CHATTERING)
Nice.
Break your
father's heart
on his birthday.
That's swell. Mike.
Congratulations.
That's right. encourage
him!
Go on.
Get me a drink.
Go on!
You don't understand.
Your father has plans for you.
Many times
he and I have talked
about your future.
You've talked to my father
about my future?
My future.
Mikey. he has
high hopes for you.
I have my own plans
for my future.
Did you go to college
to get stupid?
You're really stupid.
He's here! Come on!
Come on. Come on.
Stupid!
(DOOR OPENING)
ALL: Surprise!
ALL:
♪ For he's
a jolly good fellow
♪ That nobody can deny
Nobody can deny... ♪